Inspired by a certain era, the story,
events and characters in this film are fictional.
Any resemblance to real life people,
names or events is coincidental.
Well... It was about time!
What's your emergency?
I need to talk
to you about something else.
About what?
We got a strange request.
What kind of request?
From the police in Estonia. Tallinn.
They have captured someone.
You.
What?
Some criminal is probably using your identity.
Wait here,
This is the third time
you called about this poop.
Exactly my point!
Listen up. Do it
in front of our house!
Understand?
My name is Ralf Tamm. 47 years old,
Swedish citizen, small business owner.
A decent taxpayer.
But this has not always been the case.
30 years ago, when all this started,
I lived in another world.
That lost world has reminded itself now.
Tallinn, Soviet Estonia,
There was yet no corrosion
on the Iron Curtain,
The borders were closed,
there was war in Afghanistan.
People were marching
towards a bright communist future.
In reality something else
made peaple move.
We did not have
even the most basic things.
Skilful people sewed their own clothes,
the rest walked around in baggy sweats
and wore unmatching rubber boots.
This was our opportunity.
THE DISSIDENTS
This is me.
And this is Mario Vik,
nicknamed Speculator.
My best friend.
Though he was not
from the best of families.
He and his brother found Finnish tourists,
who brought Western goods,
Jarmo.
KGB?
- Friends.
Jeans, tights, cigarettes,
chewing gum, even plastic bags.
Everything was hard currency back then.
That's a good brand.
- Sneakers?
There was a mix-up...
My wife packed ski boots.
Ski boots? It's almost summer.
This profiteering was against the law.
Soviet citizens
were not even allowed in the hotel.
But we came prepared.
[In Finnish] Jyrkki. Look,
Do I have dust in my eye?
Look.
Well?
- Yes.
Yes, Matti.
- God damn it.
Bye bye, buddy.
A little bit of adrenalin,
a smile at the right moment,
some boldness and a lot of charm.
This job suited us.
We had our system
and could work in the lion's cage.
Thanks, Silvi.
It was hard doing something better
or more profitable back then.
Amateur,
Hey, you crooks. All good?
Einar Kotkin. Meathead.
His biggest idol was Rambo.
But his dad was a Soviet veteran,
who trained him to survive
the nuclear winter.
The main thing was
his parents had a Lada,
Hey, don't!
The next step.
The buyers waited for us
at a secret location.
It was a well-oiled machine.
No sneakers?
You can saw off the tops.
Cool hoofs.
The latest trend.
A hundred percent synthetics.
A bit tough.
- Karhu brand is tough.
Tough as hell.
Sometimes we had small problems.
Hey.
- Then some more oil was needed.
Look at this, podiatrists.
The free world.
Jackpot, guys.
Jackpot.
All this Western stuff
was literally worth gold.
We didn't say no to anything
we could exchange for money.
Jackpot, guys. Jackpot.
The last step.
Changing gold for money.
There was a buyer for everything
and every day was payday.
But our story begins here.
I need to go to work... I need...
Those spare parts are impossible to get...
Lembit, be a man now!
Hey, brother. A wake or a party?
Oh it's a party.
Listen up, cupcakes.
We need to talk.
The functionaries are on my back.
Because of the draft?
- No. That's piss.
Our guys beat up a militiaman.
Turns out his dad is an important official.
Our business is done here.
But... We are escaping to Sweden.
Through Finland.
We got a boat.
No more waiting.
You are coming with us, brother,
Lets get out of this Pig-land.
Your grandfather is in Sweden.
I haven't heard from him in ages.
We need a contact over there.
We cannot stay in Finland,
they'll extradict us.
I have no contact with him.
He fled during the war.
My mom is too
afraid to talk about him.
Too bad.
Alright, we'll meet up at my place
to discuss the details.
Later, cupcakes.
So? That's your plan?
You didn't mention it to us.
Go abroad with your brother's gang
and leave us behind.
Hey, babes!
Can you smell the hard currency?
Come on,
Here you go.
Don't be afraid.
Rita.
[In Russian] Damn,
I forgot the workbook.
Ralf, I'm pregnant.
I'll go get it now...
Wait, that's not important.
I'm expecting a child. We are.
We are going to have a baby. Understand?
Don't worry, I thought about everything.
We need a stroller.
My aunt knows people.
Maybe she'll get even a Czech one.
The one you can hang rattles on.
I'll make the diapers myself.
We need an apartment.
Dad will kick me out.
But we'll manage.
We'll get married, get jobs.
The government will give us an apartment.
Everything will be fine.
Ralf? Are you listening?
Dad waited for your call.
Yeah.
Rita came looking for you.
Yes,
Ralf, I want you to think about this.
The first semester is over soon.
I want you to have a proper job.
Like dad?
He's been gone for six months.
Ralf, do not be ungrateful.
Tam not. It's just...
I won't remember his face by the time
he earns enough to buy a Lada car.
I don't want you to be an opportunist
who ends up in jail.
Don't worry about me.
I'll manage. All is good.
Do you want me to help?
No thanks, I'll manage.
I don't believe you.
Rare metals.
Rare metals...
Here you are.
Yes. Iron oxide.
Where is it?
Meathead!
- What?
You got soap instead of money?
We are screwed without Mario,
Totally screwed.
They have pills in the West.
Steroids.
Body lotions.
I have to do everything myself
like a fucking Belarus tractor.
You can get feed from the collective farm.
Does it work on people?
- Yes.
It makes your udders grow too.
You can milk yourself.
- I am serious.
Mario.
- The militia took my brother.
No way.
- They arrested the whole gang.
All of them.
First - an investigation.
Then to the army, away for two years.
We thought you'd be in Sweden by now.
We were supposed to go tonight.
What now?
I'll tell you what.
We take the boat and go ourselves.
My brother has money waiting in Finland.
That will get us started.
He will follow us later.
Are you serious?
- Yes,
Our business in hotel Viru is over,
Even if we did really well,
ten years from now
we'd sit in front of a shed,
a crummy Lada in the driveway
and listening
to the party congress on the radio.
This is it, guys.
What's there to think about?
My dad would flip out.
Me joining the army is
a matter of honor for him.
Mom said... Mom said we'd try to talk...
You will talk about nothing.
You will call him from Sweden.
Let him yell his side cap straight.
And if we get caught?
They will shoot us.
Then stay here.
We'll send you some
Jenkki chewing gum to Afghanistan.
You can blow a bubble
while the ragheads cut your head off.
Alright.
Alright!
Let's do this!
- Alright!
It's decided.
- Lets do this!
Are you kidding?
No. That's how it is.
How do you know the child is yours?
Stop it.
She said the same to her last boyfriend.
I told you to stop.
Ralf, listen to me.
Rita wants you to take responsibility,
because you are a gullible fool.
Have you even slept with her?
Have I slept with her?
- Yes. Have you?
What kind of a question is that?
Maybe you too were found in a nutshell.
The holy family.
Mom a scientist, dad a working class hero.
Am I right? Ralf.
Huh?
- Well...
Ralf. Ralf,
God damn it...
- Hey, crooks.
Let's be friends.
I got you.
Are we going to make up, huh?
Let's make up.
I'll present my dissertation tomorrow.
I am awfully nervous.
We could go somewhere after.
Maybe to a cafeteria.
What are you doing tomorrow, Ralf?
Ralf?
And?
What the...
Fucking bonehead.
Let's go.
Mario!
Hey, crooks!
Hey, crooks! Where are you?
Meathead.
I got away.
Dad went to a party.
I took his car.
Why these?
We have an excuse
in case we get caught.
That we came here to play badminton?
Come on now. Help me.
What about the car?
The state can have it.
Or do you want
to take it with you
along with your mom and summer house?
Fuck.
Hey, guys.
There is no way back.
Oh, stop the drama, scientist.
What's wrong?
What does it want?!
- It's cold.
It's so cold.
- It's supposed to be cold.
We're fleeing through the Iron Curtain,
I didn't know fleeing was this cold.
I don't feel so good.
- Hush.
The border patrol is coming.
- No.
The dockers are starting their shift.
Let me try.
What is that?
- Hands off.
God damn idiot!
I want to go home.
Border guards are having a party.
We started the party!
The worst thing is, that I can't tell
which way we are going.
I would rather drown
than be taken alive.
Twill drown you myself.
Hey, guys.
Guys!
Is that Finland?
Are we back in Estonia?
No, those are Finnish trees.
Crooks, those are Western trees!
Land of the chewing gum!
Who are the bosses now?
Why are you yelling?
If they hear us,
they'll call the Soviet embassy.
Iam not afraid of anyone.
Let's get my brother's money.
Then straight to Sweden.
You know what, Meathead?
Here, instead of strawberries
they have Jennki gum growing in the forests.
Jenkki, Jenkki!
- Shut up.
Which direction?
To the West,
We should turn right.
What?
- Why right?
Isn't West always on the right side?
Your ass is on the right side.
We are Finns, remember?
They'll know.
I'll do the talking.
No small-talk. Got it?
Listen, maybe we don't have to eat?
What?
- We can eat berries and shrub.
We are not plant lice.
This summer has been particularly dry.
Today is another dry and hot day.
There is a forest fire warning
that's been in force for three weeks now.
The drought isn't going to end...
Hello.
We would like to have two pizzas.
And Jaffa-lemonades.
For each. Please.
Did it start to rain outside?
Yes, one small cloud
came from the East.
No problem.
- Not at all.
Fucking cube.
Your Jaffa.
And these. Here you are.
What the hell is this?
Italian food. Delicacy.
It tastes like fried vomit.
The mobsters eat this.
We are not proper mobsters.
Pass the paper.
Ralf.
At least we have taken
a dump in the free world.
It will take some time.
Your brother's money is invested in wood.
What do you mean?
The logs will be sold to Russia.
Russia?! Fuck this.
I don't have time to wait.
We have to go to Sweden.
- Relax.
Don't make a fuss.
What shall we do?
We'll take you to the border.
I'm sure,
We'll leave without money and that's it?
I can give you
a few hundred marks right now.
You'll get more once the logs are sold.
Kaisa!
Mario.
We'll be at the border soon.
Get up. We are near the border.
I would like to be compensated.
What did she say?
She wants to do it.
To do what?
This.
You do it.
Why me?
She likes your muscles.
It's your own fault.
The lumber yard chick sure knows,
how to handle wood.
Crooks, we're going to get caught here.
Let's cross the border somewhere else.
See you in Sweden. I'm going.
Come on,
Let's go.
We fled the Soviet Union
and need political asylum.
Brave refugees
Welcome to the Estonian House in Stockholm.
I am your grandfather,
Your Swedish grandfather.
Two generations meet in freedom.
Our heroes,
Heroes.
- What a joke!
He will not stay with us.
The boys will tell us
how is life in bolshevik occupied Estonia
and why they decided to take on
the dangerous escape from that slavery.
Well.
The main...
The main reason was...
It was lame, there.
It was hard...
Very hard
to take up bodybuilding.
He means building a life for oneself.
Yes, of course,
Tell them about the army.
We do not want to fight
for the Red Army in Afghanistan.
We condemn the Soviet Union's
imperialistic plans
and threats of nuclear war.
We want a free world.
Don't let people be separated by borders
and an arms race.
We demand freedom
to all political prisoners!
Our heroes,
Lars
-Jukka Lampinen, producer.
I've worked with ABBA.
You know ABBA, right?
Money, money, money.
Hello.
- Hello.
We should work together.
Co-production.
I'll make popstars out of you.
Superstars.
- Move along.
What did he say?
- I don't know.
Superstars!
This is a once in a lifetime opportunity.
Is this what they gave you?
Yes,
Where is the key?
They didn't give me one.
This is a keychain.
I don't know.
It doesn't fit.
Here!
Tecan't..
Wow. Did you hear that?
- Yes.
Holy shit.
Welcome to the West.
We made it!
Sure the Estonian House is paying?
Bronze.
Don't worry so much.
Enjoy Life.
- Idiot.
A bronze tan!
We did it!
Holy shit, you crooks!
The Soviets are attacking!
Sex On The Beach,
Black Russian,
Martini cocktail.
Three.
- Yes, I know.
Hello. Three!
Pina Cotas.
- What?
Pina Cota.
- Three Pina Coladas.
Check this out - real Swedes.
Welcome.
Good morning.
My name is Rulle Karlsson.
From the migration agency.
Karlsson.
Where is the propeller?
Yes, like Karlsson-on-the
-Roof.
You are moving to the refugee centre.
What is he saying?
He will give you a 100 kronas,
if you pinch his ass.
You will be integrated
into the Swedish society.
The car is waiting outside.
Get dressed, I will be waiting.
Good luck.
What did he say?
Who's that?
Champagne,
mini-bar, bathrobes,
room service, sheets,
room renovation, the remote control.
What is this? On the top.
New water for the swimming pool.
Welcome to the refugee centre 31
-B.
Buchenwald.
Hello-hello.
Maybe they don't know
that we are the boat heroes.
Everyone here is a boat hero.
Here in Sweden
we want refugees to feel like home.
Hi.
- Hi.
All good?
- Yes.
Smells funny.
- Something's burning.
Ralf Tamm?
- Yes.
Phone for Ralfie-boy.
Hello.
Yes,
Sure, Bye.
Grandpa called.
He found a good job for us.
Hey, hero. Let's get out of this place.
Now, the job is easy.
You have to dig out all the dandelions.
Starting from here
and then move on to the next area.
All around the factory.
Here are some gloves.
Drinking water.
Twill come back at five.
Then we'll see if
you have earned your pay.
This is not what I had in mind.
This makes my muscles grow wrong.
Grow wrong?
The right arm becomes bigger.
Yes-yes.
Stallone would not have done this.
Tell your grandpa we are not idiots.
Tell him we'll do better without him.
When I fled to Sweden,
I would've been thankful for such a job.
We thought this would pay more.
No one becomes a millionaire in Sweden.
You have to build your life slowly.
We don't want to build it from dirt.
Then go back to your communist paradise,
if you can't appreciate honest work.
What?!
This is Sweden for you.
We were supposed to get support money.
Didn't he say...
That boss-dude.
You can't buy hair gel for that money.
God damn it.
We can't sell Western goods here.
Genius. Did you think you'd sell
ski boots for gold here too?
Hey.
Who's paying the bill?
Grandpa.
- What?
Listen. Wait up.
I have an idea,
This is it.
Holy cow.
House like a mausoleum.
If he wants us to mow lawn too,
I'll swim back home.
Try again.
Good girl.
I'm actually a Finn.
Kind of a refugee, like you.
You smell like money,
charisma and a story.
I've got business smarts.
When these elements meet...
Kaboom!
And ching ching, ching ching.
Money starts to rain.
What is he saying?
Hey, darling.
We are out of gin.
Again.
One second.
Camilla, honey.
Can't you see that I have clients?
Fucking liar.
Hot stuff.
My woman.
She was elected Miss Stockholm in...
..1956.
What did he say?
He's wife is a whore.
The bottles shall do the speaking.
He said it like that?
Bottoms up.
We'll build a product out of you.
Three dissidents from the USSR who rock.
A rock band.
We can't sing.
What is going on?
The road is open to the top.
Alright.
Way to go.
Super Trouper and Mamma Mia,
A star is born,
And it's burning brightly.
More rock and roll.
Get closer to each other.
Closer.
All right then.
Mouths open.
Mouth open.
More.
Then your hips.
Move them, dammit.
Move.
Stick your tongue out.
Out. There you go.
Good.
Put this here.
Put your tongue out.
can't,
Tcan't doit.
There.
Shit.
Let's take a picture.
Grimace, darn it.
Thank you. Close your mouths.
Is this in fashion over here?
In fashion? He looks like a slut,
who has been inflated through his ass.
What are you laughing about?
One more photo for the poster.
Time is money.
Speaking of money...
Listen. When these photos go out
gold dust starts to rain on you.
What is he mumbling?
- I don't know.
Say something.
Hey, listen.
We don't know how to play or sing.
Why won't you believe it?
Peace, my friend.
Backing singers will sing.
You won't sing.
Pros are singing.
I've got three singers.
Voices of angels.
But looks of toads.
No commercial potential at all.
Ghost singers for The Dissidents.
You will get on stage.
Dance and open your mouths.
You can dance, right?
Can we dance?
Do you know breakdancing?
Now you're talking.
Good, bravo.
Exactly like that.
Something like...
Yes, yes, exactly.
This is sick,
Come here.
I will not make a fool of myself.
I can give interviews for money.
I can train spies.
But I will not do this freak show.
Nobody wants our interviews.
Crooks?
- You should open your wallet.
Don't be petty, Goran.
Have you got no ambition?
Hey, boys. Boys?
You can't sing, but...
Can you write?
Your story!
What?
Darkness.
The cold sea.
The lights were blinking hauntingly
in the darkness.
The boarder patrol sent special units
into the darkness.
Darkness.
Nothing but darkness.
I have not finished the last sentence.
It starts with "darkness".
You have nothing but darkness
in your brain.
I hope Lars
-Jukka has a better idea.
Porn?
Not porn. Erotica,
Let's take an artistic approach...
He wants us to do porn.
- No, erotica.
Stallone did porn.
Stallone, Where is he now?
What?
- Where is Stallone?
What does Stallone do now?
He is Rambo.
- Yes!
A respected film star.
A movie star.
What is he blabbering now?
Let's hear him out.
We came from behind the Iron Curtain.
We are heroes.
We don't do porn,
Erotica, erotica.
What exactly do you want us to do?
Ralf, you cannot be serious.
Just relax. Let's hear him out.
You'll get money.
And beautiful girls.
Double bonuses.
Fucking pimp.
- Mario.
One oldie lets us dig dirt,
another one wants to dig us himself.
Stop whining.
Think of a better plan.
You dragged us here.
- I did?
We cannot go back home.
I don't know what to do.
Let him think of something.
You are getting on my nerves.
Hey, we...
- You should calm down!
Who?
- You should.
- You,
Get back on that boat and go home.
Do porn with Rita and your kid.
Shut up.
Do you hear me? Shut up.
Guys, relax.
Calm down.
You're crazy.
- Stop it.
Shut up already.
God damn it.
- You're fucking crazy.
Get out, you Russkies!
What now?
Are we going to live here?
With that support money?
We have to get a job.
Then we can live more comfortably.
Ajob?
Yes,
Let's pull some overalls on again.
Overalls...
Hey.
How do you say in Swedish:
"Give me your money
and keys to your Volvo"?
[In Swedish] Good luck.
Nobody cares, I told you.
What did you get?
- Muscle drink.
Dishwashing liquid.
What is that shit?!
It's for washing your muscles.
Thank you.
How much are they paying you?
20 kronas.
20 kronas?! - 20 kronas?
20 kronas?
Look, minus fifty percent.
Stealing is half off.
Don't, I'l get fired.
- What?
Turn us in, friend.
Guard the ducks.
Stop.
You are the boat guy.
From the Soviet Union.
I read about you in the papers.
You like Sweden?
Is Sweden OK?
Yes,
[In Russian] Everything is alright.
Can I get your autograph?
Please.
To Sibylla.
You would like to...
...learn more about Swedish culture?
Culture... Yes.
Thank you.
- Thank you.
Look, Estonian boys.
Subverting capitalism,
dispensing resources.
Relax. I only wanted to know,
if you feel homesick.
KGB.
Maybe we can talk?
About what?
Twill let you call home.
I bet your parents are waiting.
Here.
Is this your plan?
Make us homesick
and lock us up, when we come back.
It would be nice to call home.
You, traitor, shut up and listen!
What the hell are you doing?
What will my comrades think?
They won't even shake my hand!
Have you forgotten what I taught you?
Rita moved in.
Her dad kicked her out.
Ralf?
- Rita.
Ralf, don't worry about us.
We will manage.
Ralf.
I promise I will do something.
Ralf, be careful.
Ralf!
Mario is out of his mind.
What?
- He shouldn't drink.
Stop!
Mario, what are you doing?
Relax.
- What happened?
Let's talk.
Talk to us.
- Calm down.
What happened?
My brother is dead.
My brother is dead!
They paid him back for avoiding the army.
Sent him straight to Afghanistan.
He blew up!
He is dead!
Calm down.
I have no one left.
You have us.
- Relax.
What happened here?
We can talk about this.
This is a conflict.
His brother...
- His brother died!
Get out!
- We can...
Get lost!
- Out!
This is it! You are out of here!
Tomorrow morning! God damn it!
You will get your passports
and you are gone!
Where to now, Swedes?
This is our land now.
A million opportunities.
Ah, The Dissidents.
The house will be taken from me.
The bank.
Fuck...
Pippi must be walked.
Camilla left it to us.
Camilla.
I've got a son.
I haven't seen him for twenty years.
I left my wife and son in Finland.
When I came to Sweden
like all fortune hunters.
At first I was
on a roll. Oh boy.
But then...
When I saw you I thought...
There's finally my chance.
Now I'll make a huge comeback.
But...
I left a girl in Estonia.
Rita.
She's pregnant.
You can return to Finland.
But we back to...
..the Soviet Union.
No way.
Ralf.
I hope they'll forgive me.
Finland, damn it.
Drive to the harbour.
Don't show Pippi any horror movies.
She'll lose her sleep.
So?
What now?
We have a mansion in our hands.
We live in a free country.
We will think of something.
A free country?
Alright.
Let's be free.
It is not working. Take it back.
Do you have the receipt?
Sorry, you have to have the receipt.
Can you come back with it?
Someone's looking for a welder.
Let me guess. 20 kronas a day.
At least you'd have sparkle in the eyes.
We did not come here to work.
We could've done that in Estonia.
We have to pull a serious job.
And after that - to the States,
What kind of job?
A gas station.
A jewelry store,
Fast in, fast out.
Bye bye, Sweden.
Are you serious?
Forget about it.
The locals are a bunch of Moomins.
Smiling like idiots
while you rip them off.
What is there to think about?
It is not like stealing food.
You could go to jail.
You were not afraid
of the Russian border guards,
but you are scared of Svenssons in vests.
Well, Meathead.
Are you scared of security guys
armed with combs?
Are you Rambo or not?
Don't...
Someone promised
to teach me Swedish culture,
Watch this.
What is this? Come on!
Ralf.
- Ralf!
Don't worry, I got my brother's money.
Are you serious?
- Of course.
Hop in. We will give you a lift.
Better than your dad's Lada.
No way.
Unbelievable.
What is this?
Sweden's migration agency.
- Give it back.
You want to bring your chick here?
Yes. I do.
Cute little family.
Stop laughing.
You got the money,
now you can do something reasonable.
I spent it all on the car.
What?
It's our getaway car.
We have costumes and everything.
We'll pull this job
and get out of here.
Jewelry shop. We picked a place.
Downtown.
Ralf, we need your help.
Ralf, let's do this
and get out of Sweden.
Shut up. Stop the car.
Didn't you hear me? Stop the car.
Stop this damn car!
Alright.
You're not fit for serious business.
And you are?
If you were smart,
you wouldn't shit in your own back yard.
You'd go to Helsinki or somewhere.
You are weak, my friend!
Helsinki?
This is a bad idea.
Don't be a wuss.
We won't shoot anyone.
But still.
- Just relax.
How about the payment?
Yes, kayaks. Like those that the Indians have...
Put the phone away! Get down!
Get down!
What are you waiting for?
Get up!
Give me the jewelry.
Put them in the bag.
Don't break it!
I'l give them.
Hurry!
Put them in the bag.
Close the bag now!
- Yes, yes.
Give the bag!
Your compensation.
We're no cheapskates.
- Thank you.
Pirjo, goddammit.
What have you done?
Who are the bosses now?
I told you. It
is a piece of cake.
It's their own fault.
It's too easy.
Jump. Jump over.
Come here.
Yes. Like this.
Hop! Come here.
Come on,
A violent robbery in Helsinki
left Finland in shock,
Extremely dangerous and armed robbers
are still on the run.
We made the front page again.
Do you know what you did?
We finally did something big.
Moping around here takes you nowhere.
We have a new target.
- What?
A bank.
We'll rob a bank
and then to the States.
Whole Finland is looking for you.
And here we are. In Stockholm.
Thanks for the idea, Ralf.
Why the sad face?
Here, take this.
Come with us, you'll get more.
Everyone has a gold watch now.
Hello?
My son, Arto, forgave me.
Lars
-Jukka.
I've got three grandkids.
Can you imagine?
- That's nice.
How's everything going back there?
Ralf?
- It's good.
How much are we talking about?
Millions. Millions!
Kansakoulukatu street.
We'll park here.
Kansakoulukattu,
- Kansakoulukatu.
Kansakoulukattukatu. Katu.
Kansakoulukatu.
- Kansakoulukatu.
- Meathead.
Let's go.
Everybody down!
Get down!
- Get down!
Face the wall!
Down!
- Face the wall!
Face the wall!
- Get down!
Down!
- Give us the money!
Open the safe!
Get down!
I'm sorry...
But my hand does not move.
My hand just does not move.
- What do I do?
Everybody down!
I'm sorry, but...
Faster!
- If I'm like this and...
...keep my eyes closed?
I'won't peek at all.
What is he saying?
Lay on your side!
I'see,
Meathead, get behind the counter!
- What?
Get behind the counter!
- Hey, buddy.
A suggestion.
I suggest that I'll get on my back
and keep my eyes closed.
I mean like this.
I'll lay on my back.
And shut my eyes. I won't peek.
- Now what?
Behind the counter! The money!
Is this good?
- Shut up!
I'll close my eyes and my mouth.
The money.
Hurry.
Hurry! Now!
Let it... Let it go.
Was it okay like this with eyes...
Get down!
Shit.
Stop!
Stop or we'll shoot! Stop!
Kansakoulukatu?
Where is Kansakoulukatu?
Get down!
On the ground!
It was a gift.
- He says, it's a gift.
Of course.
And I'm Santa Claus.
Of course. And Tam Santa Claus.
Who?
What do you mean?
Iam only translating.
There were three of you.
What was Ralf's role in the system?
What role did Ralf Tamm play?
He told us to go to Helsinki.
Nothing else.
Ralf told them to rob in Helsinki.
- I see.
So he was the mastermind?
Shit!
Nobody considered us heroes anymore.
They made a big deal about it.
And we got hit hard,
Meathead got three years.
1 as the mastermind got four years.
From behind the Iron Curtain
to behind iron bars.
They even brought in Lars-fukka.
He knew nothing about the robberies.
Fucking gay Vikings!
But it turned out
he had been evading taxes.
I'll complain...
And Mario?
He disappeared.
Meathead didn't do so bad in jail
He got tons of fan mail,
In the eyes of Finnish and Swedish girls
he was a real sex symbol,
I want to kiss your enormous...
FINNISH ESTONIAN DICTIONARY
Lars
-Jukka didn't do bad either.
He started a prison choir.
Murderers, burglars and tax evaders
singing from the bottom of their hearts,
The record was very popular
and Lars
-Jukka got his comeback.
...Mikhail Gorbatchev has started his big reforms
that seem to shake the whole Soviet system...
Twas a refugee father like my grandpa once.
But the free West
was not so free at the moment.
And then I got a strange postcard.
BUENOS DIAS!
I got out after four years,
Berlin Wall was taken down the same year.
The Iron Curtain became
a thing of the past.
Meathead had made a life for himself.
In a totally legal way.
What now?
I mean, after the party.
I guess I have get used to freedom.
It's my life.
Sybilla, start the car.
Alright, let's go.
We both got a new chance.
But Mario...
He had dissappeared.
Iknew who I had to identify.
I had decided.
Twill punch him twice.
Once for the past
and once for this present mess,
Iwan to give him two good punches.
Before the cops take me down.
Ihave to do it
Ralf Tamm?
Come with me.
We were quite surprised,
that there was another Estonian
with the same name in Stockholm.
We almost buried you.
What happened?
- Bank robbery.
In Marbella.
The driver was shot
and drove off a cliff.
The car caught fire,
All burned.
He held this in his hand.
T know who he is.
We were about seven years old.
Mario came to our place,
when his dad was drunk again.
Maybe he thought about those nights,
behind our kitchen table,
when he took my identity.
Mom a scientist,
dad a working class hero.
The dream of a normal family.
His long escape from himself
Is now finally over.
Hello.
Yes, Rita.
I'll be there in the morning.
Yes. Alright.
Love you.
Thank you, mister.